# readings
Readings list of Essence research

Andreas, C. C., & Widyani, Y. 2019. Essence-based Method Chunk Composition. Proc. Int. Conf. Data Softw. Eng., ICoDSE. Presented at the Proceedings of 2019 International Conference on Data and Software Engineering, ICoDSE 2019, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICoDSE48700.2019.9092736.
Balland, C., Cisse, N. S., Hergoualch, L., Kervot, G., Lidec, A., et al. 2017. Girls Who... Do Scratch a First Round with the Essence Kernel. In Washizaki H. & Mead N. (Eds.), Proc. - IEEE Conf. Softw. Eng. Educ. Train., CSEE T, 2017-January: 251–255. Presented at the Proceedings - 30th IEEE Conference on Software Engineering Education and Training, CSEE and T 2017, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
Brandt, S., Striewe, M., Beck, F., & Goedicke, M. 2017. A Dashboard for Visualizing Software Engineering Processes Based on ESSENCE. Proc. - IEEE Working Conf. Softw. Visualization, VISSOFT, 2017-October: 134–138. Presented at the Proceedings - 2017 IEEE Working Conference on Software Visualization, VISSOFT 2017, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
Castro, L. F., Cooper, K. M. L., Duc, A. N., Pieper, J., & Striewe, M. 2020. 1st International Workshop on Essence in Education Training (WEET 2020). In Daun M., Hochmuller E., Krusche S., Brugge B., & Tenbergen B. (Eds.), IEEE Conf. Softw. Eng. Educ. Train., CSEE T, 294–295. Presented at the 2020 IEEE 32nd Conference on Software Engineering Education and Training, CSEE and T 2020, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
Ciancarini, P., & Missiroli, M. 2020. Teaching the Essence of Software Development. In Daun M., Hochmuller E., Krusche S., Brugge B., & Tenbergen B. (Eds.), IEEE Conf. Softw. Eng. Educ. Train., CSEE T, 299–300. Presented at the 2020 IEEE 32nd Conference on Software Engineering Education and Training, CSEE and T 2020, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
Dahhane, W., Berrich, J., Bouchentouf, T., & Rahmoun, M. 2017. SEMAT Essence’s Kernel applied to O-MaSE. Int Conf Multimedia Comput Syst Proc, 0: 799–804. Presented at the International Conference on Multimedia Computing and Systems -Proceedings, IEEE Computer Society.
Dietrich, L., Gramm, A., Kastl, P., & Romeike, R. 2015. An image of the essence of software development: Experiences from two agile projects. In Gallenbacher J. (Ed.), Lect. Notes Informatics (LNI), Proc. - Series Ges. Inform. (GI), P249: 83–92. Presented at the Lecture Notes in Informatics (LNI), Proceedings - Series of the Gesellschaft fur Informatik (GI), Gesellschaft fur Informatik (GI).
Durango-Vanegas, C. E., Zapata-Rueda, C. M., & Zapata-Jaramillo, C. M. 2019. Representation of the competencies of a software development team based on the semat essence kernel. Informacion Tecnologica, 30(4): 217–226.
Elvesæter, B., Benguria, G., & Ilieva, S. 2013. A comparison of the Essence 1.0 and SPEM 2.0 specifications for software engineering methods. Proc. Workshop Process-Based Approaches Model-Driven Eng., PMDE. Presented at the Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Process-Based Approaches for Model-Driven Engineering, PMDE 2013. https://doi.org/10.1145/2489833.2489835.
Giray, G., Tüzün, E., Tekinerdogan, B., & Macit, Y. 2016. Systematic approach for mapping software development methods to the essence framework. Proc. - Int. Workshop Theory-Oriented Softw. Eng., TOSE, 26–32. Presented at the Proceedings - 5th International Workshop on Theory-Oriented Software Engineering, TOSE 2016, Association for Computing Machinery, Inc.
Holtappels, S., Striewe, M., & Goedicke, M. 2016. From essence to theory oriented software engineering. In Freivalds R.M., Engels G., & Catania B. (Eds.), Lect. Notes Comput. Sci., 9587: 43–50. Presented at the Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), Springer Verlag.
Ibarguengoitia, G. G., & Oktaba, H. 2016. Use of the essence and Kuali-Beh to structure software engineering courses. In Fernandez y Fernandez C.A., Oktaba H.J., Sandoval G.L., Juarez-Ramirez R., Calleros S.J., et al. (Eds.), Proc. - Int. Conf. Softw. Eng. Res. Innov., CONISOFT, 47–52. Presented at the Proceedings - 2016 4th International Conference in Software Engineering Research and Innovation, CONISOFT 2016, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
Ivanova, L., Zmeev, D., & Zmeev, O. 2022. Implementation of Essence Practice into Bayesian Networks. In Ozaslan M. (Ed.), Eurasia. Proc. Sci. Technol. Eng. Math., 17: 120–128. Presented at the Eurasia Proceedings of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics, ISRES Publishing.
Jacobson, I., Ng, P.-W., McMahon, P. E., Spence, I., & Lidman, S. 2012. The essence of software engineering: The SEMAT kernel. Communications of the ACM, 55(12): 42–49.
Jacobson, I., Spence, I., & Ng, P.-W. 2017. Is there a single method for the internet of things? Communications of the ACM, 60(11): 46–53.
Jacobson, I., Spence, I., & Seidewitz, E. 2016. Industrial-scale agile: From craft to engineering. Communications of the ACM, 59(12): 63–71.
Jacobson, I., & Stimson, R. 2018. Tear Down the Method Prisons! Set Free the Practices! Essence: A new way of thinking that promises to liberate the practices and enable true learning organizations. Queue, 16(5): Pages 80:101-Pages 80:127.
Jacobson, I., Sutherland, J., Kerr, B., & Buhnova, B. 2022. Better Scrum through Essence. Software - Practice and Experience, 52(6): 1531–1540.
Jana, D., & Pal, P. 2020. ESSENCE Kernel in Overcoming Challenges of Agile Software Development. IEEE India Council Int. Conf., INDICON. Presented at the 2020 IEEE 17th India Council International Conference, INDICON 2020, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. https://doi.org/10.1109/INDICON49873.2020.9342375.
Jimenez-Hernandez, E. M., Oktaba, H., Diaz-Barriga, F., & Piattini, M. 2021. Using an Educational Mobile Application for Learning the Essence 1.2 Kernel Alphas. IEEE Latin America Transactions, 19(4): 625–633.
Kajko-Mattsson, M. 2015. Tackling the incompleteness of software engineering education with the ESSENCE kernel. ACM Int. Conf. Proc. Ser., 24-26-August-2015: 179–180. Presented at the ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, Association for Computing Machinery.
Kemell, K.-K., Nguyen-Duc, A., Wang, X., Risku, J., & Abrahamsson, P. 2018. The essence theory of software engineering – Large-scale classroom experiences from 450+ Software Engineering BSc students. In Ciolkowski M., Hebig R., Kuhrmann M., Pfahl D., Tell P., et al. (Eds.), Lect. Notes Comput. Sci., 11271 LNCS: 123–138. Presented at the Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), Springer Verlag.
Kemell, K.-K., Nguyen-Duc, A., Wang, X., Risku, J., & Abrahamsson, P. 2020. Software startup ESSENCE: How should software startups work? Fundam. Of Softw. Startups: Essent. Eng. And Bus. Asp.: 97–109. Springer International Publishing.
Kocatas, A. T., & Erbas, C. 2014. Extending essence kernel to enact practices at the level of software modules. SEMAT Workshop General Theories of Software Engineering, GTSE 2014—Proceedings, 32–35. Presented at the 3rd SEMAT Workshop on General Theories of Software Engineering, GTSE 2014 - Proceedings, Association for Computing Machinery.
Morales-Trujillo, M. E., Oktaba, H., & Orozco, M. J. 2016. Using ESSENCE ALPHAs in a CMMI level 5 software development organization. In Ganzha M., Paprzycki M., & Maciaszek L. (Eds.), Proc. Fed. Conf. Comput. Sci. Inf. Syst., FedCSIS, 1531–1538. Presented at the Proceedings of the 2016 Federated Conference on Computer Science and Information Systems, FedCSIS 2016, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
Ng, P.-W. 2015. Integrating software engineering theory and practice using essence: A case study. Sci Comput Program, 101: 66–78. Presented at the Science of Computer Programming, Elsevier B.V.
Ng, P.-W., & Huang, S. 2013. Essence: A framework to help bridge the gap between software engineering education and industry needs. Software Eng Educ Proc, 304–308. Presented at the Software Engineering Education Conference, Proceedings.
Ng, P.-W., Huang, S., & Wu, Y. 2013. On the value of essence to software engineering research: A preliminary study. SEMAT Workshop Gen. Theory Softw. Eng., GTSE - Proc., 51–58. Presented at the 2013 2nd SEMAT Workshop on a General Theory of Software Engineering, GTSE 2013 - Proceedings, IEEE Computer Society.
Park, J. S., Jang, J., & Lee, E. 2018. Theoretical and empirical studies on essence-based adaptive software engineering. Information Technology and Management, 19(1): 37–49.
Péraire, C., & Sedano, T. 2014a. State-based monitoring and goal-driven project steering: Field study of the SEMAT essence framework. Int. Conf. Softw. Eng., ICSE Companion—Proc., 325–334. Presented at the 36th International Conference on Software Engineering, ICSE Companion 2014 - Proceedings, Association for Computing Machinery.
Péraire, C., & Sedano, T. 2014b. Essence reflection meetings: Field study. ACM Int. Conf. Proc. Ser. Presented at the ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, Association for Computing Machinery. https://doi.org/10.1145/2601248.2601296.
Pieper, J., Lueth, O., Goedicke, M., & Forbrig, P. 2017. A case study of software engineering methods education supported by digital game-based learning: Applying the SEMAT Essence kernel in games and course projects. IEEE Global Eng. Edu. Conf., EDUCON, 1689–1699. Presented at the IEEE Global Engineering Education Conference, EDUCON, IEEE Computer Society.
Quintanilla-Perez, D., Mauricio-Delgadillo, A., & Mauricio-Sanchez, D. 2019. Essboard: A collaborative tool for using Essence in software development. In Li W. & Babu M.S.P. (Eds.), Proc.IEEE Int. Conf. Software Eng. Serv. Sci., ICSESS, 2019-October: 20–23. Presented at the Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Software Engineering and Service Sciences, ICSESS, IEEE Computer Society.
Raharjo, T., Purwandari, B., Budiardjo, E. K., & Yuniarti, R. 2023. The Essence of Software Engineering Framework-based Model for an Agile Software Development Method. International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 14(7): 802–811.
Roqueme, A. D. J. H., & Jaramillo, C. M. Z. 2017. Syntactic, Semantic and Pragmatic Regularization of Alpha Checklists in the Semat Essence Kernel: A Terminology Unification Approach. Proc. - Int. Conf. In Softw. Eng. Res. Innov., CONISOFT, 2018-January: 34–43. Presented at the Proceedings - 2017 5th International Conference in Software Engineering Research and Innovation, CONISOFT 2017, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
Samar Batool Shirazi, S., & Saud Khan, M. 2020. State of research based on essence (A Systematic Mapping Study). ACM Int. Conf. Proc. Ser., 19–25. Presented at the ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, Association for Computing Machinery.
Santoso, F., & Widyani, Y. 2021. EssenceProject: Software Project Planning Tools based on OMG’s Essence. Proc. Int. Conf. Data Softw. Eng.: Data Softw. Eng. Support. Sustain. Dev. Goals, ICoDSE. Presented at the Proceedings of 2021 International Conference on Data and Software Engineering: Data and Software Engineering for Supporting Sustainable Development Goals, ICoDSE 2021, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICoDSE53690.2021.9648477.
Savić, V., & Varga, E. 2018. Extending the SEMAT Kernel with the TDD practice. IET Software, 12(2): 85–95.
Sedano, T., & Peraire, C. 2015. Enhancing Student Experience in Team-Based Project Courses Using Essence Reflection Meetings. Software Eng Educ Proc, 2015-August: 10–12. Presented at the Software Engineering Education Conference, Proceedings, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
Sedano, T., Péraire, C., & Lohn, J. 2015. Towards generating Essence kernels using genetic algorithms. In Bahrami M. (Ed.), Procedia Comput. Sci., 62: 55–64. Presented at the Procedia Computer Science, Elsevier B.V.
Senzaki, Y., Liu, S., Washizaki, H., Kobayashi, H., & Adachi, M. 2017. Web application to manage and improve software development projects by SEMAT essence. In Anwar T., Lichter H., T. 55 RWTH Aachen University Aachen, Sunetnanta T., & 999 Phuttamonthon 4 Road Mahidol University Salaya (Eds.), CEUR Workshop Proc., 2017: 38–42. Presented at the CEUR Workshop Proceedings, CEUR-WS.
Simonette, M. J., Magalhaes, M. E. S., & Spina, E. 2016a. PMBOK five process groups and essence standard: Perfect partners? In Fernandez y Fernandez C.A., Oktaba H.J., Sandoval G.L., Juarez-Ramirez R., Calleros S.J., et al. (Eds.), Proc. - Int. Conf. Softw. Eng. Res. Innov., CONISOFT, 53–58. Presented at the Proceedings - 2016 4th International Conference in Software Engineering Research and Innovation, CONISOFT 2016, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
Simonette, M. J., Magalhaes, M. E. S., & Spina, E. 2016b. Extending essence kernel to deal with IEEE code of ethics. In Fernandez M.F., Lefranc G.H., & Perez R. (Eds.), CHILECON - IEEE CHILEAN Conf. Electr., Electron. Eng., Inf. Commun. Technol., Proc. IEEE Chilecon, 383–387. Presented at the CHILECON 2015 - 2015 IEEE Chilean Conference on Electrical, Electronics Engineering, Information and Communication Technologies, Proceedings of IEEE Chilecon 2015, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
Steghofer, J.-P. 2019. Using essence in a software development methodologies course: An experience report. In Konersmann M., Annighofer B., Helke S., Kuhrmann M., Heinrich R., et al. (Eds.), CEUR Workshop Proc., 2308: 7–10. Presented at the CEUR Workshop Proceedings, CEUR-WS.
Syynimaa, N. 2018. Essence: Reference architecture for software engineering representing essence in archimate notation. In Hammoudi S., Smialek M., Camp O., Filipe J., & Filipe J. (Eds.), ICEIS - Proc. Int. Conf. Enterp. Inf. Syst., 2: 345–350. Presented at the ICEIS 2018 - Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Enterprise Information Systems, SciTePress.
Uysal, M. P. 2018. A Formal Method for Mapping Software Engineering Practices to Essence. arXiv Preprint arXiv:1812.01791. https://arxiv.org/pdf/1812.01791.
Uysal, M. P., & Giray, G. 2017. An essence framework approach to software engineering research. In Turhan C., Yazici A., Coskuncay A., & Oguztuzun H. (Eds.), CEUR Workshop Proc., 1980: 504–515. Presented at the CEUR Workshop Proceedings, CEUR-WS.
Uysal, M. P., & Giray, G. 2018. Essence framework approach to software reengineering. In Erten M. & Tarhan A. (Eds.), CEUR Workshop Proc., 2201. Presented at the CEUR Workshop Proceedings, CEUR-WS. https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85053698150&partnerID=40&md5=b9e5b2aff8806383f968785db07512ba.
Widyani, Y., Candra, M. Z. C., Budiardjo, E. K., & Sitohang, B. 2021. A Process Framework for Applying Situational Method Engineering (SME) on OMG’s Essence. International Journal on Electrical Engineering and Informatics, 13(4): 766–788.
Zapata-Jaramillo, C. M., Maturana-Gonzalez, G. V., & Calle-Gallego, J. M. 2020. A Board Game to Simulate the Software Development Process Based on the SEMAT Essence Standard. In Daun M., Hochmuller E., Krusche S., Brugge B., & Tenbergen B. (Eds.), IEEE Conf. Softw. Eng. Educ. Train., CSEE T, 301–304. Presented at the 2020 IEEE 32nd Conference on Software Engineering Education and Training, CSEE and T 2020, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
Zmeev, D. O., & Zmeev, O. A. 2020. Project-Oriented Course of Software Engineering Based on Essence. In Daun M., Hochmuller E., Krusche S., Brugge B., & Tenbergen B. (Eds.), IEEE Conf. Softw. Eng. Educ. Train., CSEE T, 296–298. Presented at the 2020 IEEE 32nd Conference on Software Engineering Education and Training, CSEE and T 2020, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
Zmeev, D., Zmeev, O., & Tamazlykar, D. 2019. Implementation of essence practice into project management system redmine. In Prokhorov S. (Ed.), Proc. - Actual Probl. Syst. Softw. Eng., APSSE, 116–125. Presented at the Proceedings - 2019 Actual Problems of Systems and Software Engineering, APSSE 2019, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.

